docs: add self signed certs guide (#16182)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/management/admin/self-signed-certs.mdx

---
title: Running Teleport with self-signed certs
description: How run Teleport using self-certs
---

In this guide, we will show you how to run Teleport with self-signed certs, with remedies for problems caused

> by using self-signed certs.

Author: I included that in the warning <Notice> below but I could repeat it here?

> by using self-signed certs.

Author: Nvm, I'll move it from the warning up to the intro where it makes more sense.

> The Teleport Proxy Service authenticates itself to clients via TLS x509 certificates.

Author: The proxy service runs the web UI and proxies API calls - in both cases it authenticates to users via x509 certs signed by a CA that the user's machine trust, like from LetsEncrypt for example. So you need the certs configured for secure use of the web UI or `tsh`

If certificates are not configured for the Proxy Service, then it uses self-signed certificates,

> which clients will not trust by default. This can cause problems when using tools like

Author: All of these tools are used to interact with a Teleport cluster.
```suggestion
which clients will not trust by default. This can cause problems interacting with your Teleport cluster via Teleport cli tools, such as
```

`teleport`, `tsh`, or `tctl`.

Additionally, when visiting the cluster's web portal, the certificate presented will not be trusted by your browser. In this case, you will likely see a page warning you that the site is not trusted.

<Notice type="warning" title="DO NOT USE THIS IN PRODUCTION">
  **DO NOT USE SELF-SIGNED CERTS IN PRODUCTION**

>   It is not recommended to run Teleport in production with self-signed certificates.

Author: I'd like to keep the link to the proper configuration section below, but sure let's remove the wiki link to MITM attacks

>   It is not recommended to run Teleport in production with self-signed certificates.

Author: removing link to the config section below which described how to setup TLS certs, since I'm removing that section

  It is important to [properly configure certificates](#configuring-certificates-properly) from a trusted
  [Certificate Authority](https://goteleport.com/blog/ssh-certificate-authorities-explained/)
  to prevent a [Man-In-The-Middle (MITM)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Man-in-the-middle_attack) attack.

  This guide is provided for the benefit of users who are interested in evaluating Teleport in a
  non-production environment, without having to configure certificates.
</Notice>

## Prerequisites

> (!docs/pages/includes/edition-prereqs-tabs.mdx!)

Author: Good point, and the Teleport Cloud tab doesnt make sense since in the context of this article either. I'll remove that include and make a custom one for this guide

  - `auth_servers: ["tele.example.com:443"]` or
  - `auth_servers: ["tele.example.com:3080"]`
- Teleport is started with the `--auth-server` flag pointing to the proxy endpoint:
  - `teleport [app | db] start --auth-server=tele.example.com:443` or
  - `teleport [app | db] start --auth-server=tele.example.com:3080`

The way you make your Teleport service run with TLS certificate verification disabled depends on how you are
running it - via `teleport` directly from the cli, or via helm chart, or via systemd:
<Tabs>

    <TabItem label="Running teleport directly">
    When running `teleport` from the command line, pass the `--insecure` flag to disable
    TLS certificate validation. For example:
    ```sh
    $ teleport start -c /etc/teleport.yaml --insecure
    $ teleport app start -c /etc/teleport.yaml --insecure
    $ teleport db start -c /etc/teleport.yaml --insecure
    ```
    Without the `--insecure` flag, you will see an error message that looks like
    `x509: “tele.example.com” certificate is not trusted`.
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem label="Running teleport via helm chart">
    For deploying a cluster, set

>     [extraArgs](../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-cluster.mdx#extraargs)

Author: Sure, but for completion let's keep the link and add a nested tab for showing how to do it inline

    to include the extra argument: `--insecure`.
    
    
    For a Helm Kube Agent, set the 
    [insecureSkipProxyTLSVerify
    ](../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-kube-agent.mdx#insecureskipproxytlsverify)
    flag to `true`.
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem label="Running teleport via systemd">
    Edit the `systemd` Teleport unit file to include `--insecure` in the `ExecStart` line, for example:
    
    `ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/teleport start --pid-file=/run/teleport.pid --insecure`
    
    You also need to run `sudo systemctl daemon-reload` and then `sudo systemctl restart teleport.service`
    for your change to take effect.
    

>     See [create a systemd service](./daemon.mdx#step-23-create-and-configure-a-systemd-service) for

Author: Why are we avoiding links in guides? Links are informative, concise, keep the guide from veering off-topic, and provide a single source of truth. If I inline an explanation for how to setup a systemd unit file, then that info has to be kept in sync with the systemd guide. It's also more information than I'd like to include in this guide. If I omit the link and don't inline, then the reader who doesn't know how to setup systemd has to go find that guide themselves.

We should be cautious of being overzealous in avoiding links. In this case, I've provided the additional info a user needs to modify their systemd unit file, assuming they know what a unit file is and how systemd services work. If they don't know then I provide a link to our systemd guide. I think that's worth including as a "see more info" link, because anyone who knows what I'm talking about already won't click the link, and anyone who doesn't know can click the link.

Having typed up my argument for links, maybe I should rephrase the sentence around links like this: `If you are unfamiliar with X, you can learn about it here: <link>`

>     See [create a systemd service](./daemon.mdx#step-23-create-and-configure-a-systemd-service) for

Reviewer: The [style guide](https://goteleport.com/docs/contributing/documentation/style-guide/#expectations) advises against adding links to the body sections of how-to guides because the goal of these guides is to get the reader up and running with a particular setup as quickly as possible. 

If we want to include a link in a how-to guide, I think we should make it explicit what a reader should get out of the link, e.g., something concrete like a configuration value, JSON document to copy/paste, etc. If we're telling a reader to consult a link to learn more information, we're not providing them with a quick path toward completing a goal.

>     See [create a systemd service](./daemon.mdx#step-23-create-and-configure-a-systemd-service) for

Author: > If we're telling a reader to consult a link to learn more information, we're not providing them with a quick path toward completing a goal.

I see, in that case I agree we should remove the link here. I can always put "further reading" links at the bottom of the page.

    more information.
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ## Self-Signed Certs: `tctl`

Author: Sounds good

When running `tctl` remotely via the Teleport Proxy Service, if the proxy is using self-signed certs,
then `tctl` will not trust the certificate from the proxy. To disable certificate verification use
`tctl --insecure`.
`tctl` will determine how to connect to the auth service in a few ways:
- loading configuration from the profile after logging in with `tsh`
- loading from a config file passed as an argument: `tctl -c /etc/teleport.yaml`
- passing the `--auth-server` flag directly, as in:
  - `tctl --auth-server=tele.example.com:443` or
  - `tctl --auth-server=tele.example.com:3080`

If any of these methods tries to connect via the Teleport Proxy Service, and the proxy is using self-signed
certs, then `tctl` will not trust the certificate from the proxy and you will get an error message about
untrusted or invalid certificates, unless `--insecure` is also passed to `tctl`.

## Self-Signed Certs: `tsh`
When running `tsh`, you must specify the Teleport Proxy Service address for `tsh` to connect to.
If the Teleport Proxy Service is using self-signed certs, then `tsh` will not trust the proxy's certificate.
In order to use `tsh` in this case, you need to use the `--insecure` flag.

> ## Configuring Certificates Properly

Reviewer: I don't think we need this section, since this guide is explicitly intended for users who have already decided to use self-signed certificates in an insecure environment. If we do want to direct the user to instructions on setting up proper PKI with Teleport, we could, for example, link to https://goteleport.com/docs/deploy-a-cluster/open-source/

Author: ha, this is actually a case where I think inlining is warranted since the guide emphasizes the importance of setting up certs properly in prod. I don't feel strongly about it though, so I can replace the inline with a link here

Reviewer: I'm not sure this guide is about the importance of setting up certs properly. To me, up until this section, it's explicitly focused on how to use self-signed certificates in non-production environments. If we want to reframe this guide to be about how the Proxy Service uses TLS in general, we could include this section, but we should also:
- move this to a different section of the docs, e.g., `/docs/architecture`
- change the title and introductory section to be about how the Proxy Service uses TLS in general
- make this more of a conceptual guide than a how-to guide

Author: This is related to the link discussion we had above, and I think in this case I'll just remove the inline guide and provide a link under "Further Reading" at the bottom of the page.

---
title: Running Teleport with Self-Signed Certificates
description: How run Teleport using self-certificates
---

This guide is provided for the benefit of users who are interested in evaluating Teleport in a
non-production environment without having to configure TLS certificates.
We will show you how to run Teleport with self-signed certificates and address
problems caused by this configuration.

The Teleport Proxy Service authenticates itself to clients via TLS x509 certificates.
If certificates are not configured for the Proxy Service then it uses self-signed certificates,
which clients will not trust by default.
When visiting the cluster's Web UI, the certificate presented will not be trusted by your browser. In this case, 
you will likely see a page warning you that the website is not trusted.

> Additionally, self-signed certificates can cause problems when interacting with your Teleport cluster via

Author: You pretty much hit the nail on the head that the problem in general is going to be connecting to the proxy service, so I'll change this to be more specific.

    $ teleport db start -c /etc/teleport.yaml --insecure
    ```
    Without the `--insecure` flag, you will see an error message that looks like
    `x509: “tele.example.com” certificate is not trusted`.
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem label="Helm chart">
    For deploying a cluster, set
    [extraArgs](../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-cluster.mdx#extraargs)
    to include the extra argument: `--insecure`:
    <Tabs>
      <TabItem label="values.yaml">
      ```yaml
      extraArgs:
      - "--insecure"
      ```
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem label="--set">
      ```code
      $ --set "extraArgs={--insecure}"
      ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>
    
    
    For a Helm Kube Agent, set the 
    [insecureSkipProxyTLSVerify
    ](../../reference/helm-reference/teleport-kube-agent.mdx#insecureskipproxytlsverify)
    flag to `true`:
    <Tabs>
      <TabItem label="values.yaml">
      ```yaml
      insecureSkipProxyTLSVerify: true
      ```
      </TabItem>
      <TabItem label="--set">
      ```code
      $ --set insecureSkipProxyTLSVerify=true
      ```
      </TabItem>
    </Tabs>
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem label="systemd">

>     Edit the `systemd` Teleport unit file to include `--insecure` in the `ExecStart` line, for example:

Reviewer: Maybe add an instruction to run `systemctl status teleport` to get the path to the unit file?

Author: Good idea, added

    
    ```text
    ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/teleport start --pid-file=/run/teleport.pid --insecure
    ```
    
    You also need to reload the daemon for your changes to take effect:
    ```sh
    $ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
    $ sudo systemctl restart teleport.service
    ```
    
    See [create a systemd service](./daemon.mdx#step-23-create-and-configure-a-systemd-service) for
    more information.
    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

### `tctl`
When running `tctl` remotely via the Teleport Proxy Service, if the Proxy Service is using self-signed 
certificates, then `tctl` will not trust the certificate from the Proxy Service.
To disable certificate verification use:

> `tctl --insecure`.

Reviewer: I think we can make "use: `tctl --insecure`" more precise. Right now, it's not clear if this is a full command or not. Maybe say, "use the `--insecure` flag when running `tctl` commands"?

Author: Changed according to your suggestion. I also added a "For example: `tctl status --insecure`" at the end of tctl section, and "For example: `tsh login --proxy=tele.example.com:443 --user=alice --insecure`" at the end of the tsh section.

> `tctl` will determine how to connect to the auth service in a few ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

`tctl` will determine how to connect to the Auth Service in a few ways:
```
I've suggested capitalizing "Auth Service" and adding a new paragraph since this is the start of a new thought.

> - loading configuration from the profile after logging in with `tsh`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- loading configuration from a local profile after logging in with `tsh`
```
Since we haven't mentioned "profile" yet, I've suggested adding an indefinite article and qualifying this a bit more.

  ```yaml
  proxy_service:
    enabled: "yes"
    # TLS certificate for the HTTPS connection.
    https_keypairs: []
    # Get an automatic certificate from letsencrypt.org using ACME.
    acme: {}
  ```

- The `tctl` admin tool and `tsh` client tool version >= (=teleport.version=),
  which you can download by visiting the
  [customer portal](https://dashboard.gravitational.com/web/login).

  ```code
  $ tctl version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  
  $ tsh version
  # Teleport v(=teleport.version=) go(=teleport.golang=)
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## How to use self-signed certs with Teleport binaries

### `teleport`

When running a Teleport service with `teleport`, if the service you are starting is configured to point to
the Teleport Proxy Service endpoint and the Proxy Service is using self-signed certificates, then `teleport` will need
to be run with the `--insecure` flag to disable verification of the
Proxy Service TLS certificate. This is the case when:
- The Teleport config file `auth_servers` setting is set to the Proxy Service endpoint:
  - `auth_servers: ["tele.example.com:443"]` or

>   - `auth_servers: ["tele.example.com:3080"]`

Reviewer 2: We added config v3 which has either `auth_server` or `proxy_server` 

https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/bd0ae3819b27e107153398de926392c96f8088ae/docs/pages/reference/config.mdx?plain=1#L142-L158

Can you update this to match please?

Note, we didn't backport this, so when backporting for v10 you should still mention `auth_servers`.

Author: Sure. On that note, are we planning to update the `teleport start` cli to have separate `--proxy-server` and `--auth-server`?

Reviewer 2: cc @zmb3

>   - `proxy_server: ["tele.example.com:3080"]`

Author: thanks for catching this, I wasn't thinking 🥲
